---
layout: post
title:  "Screeps AI: State of the world at the beginning of 2023"
date:   2023-07-14 17:00:00 +0530
categories: gaming programming  
published: true
tags: CricketManager Javascript Typescript programming
author: Argha Sen
---
# Introducing Cricket Manager - Devlog Entry #1

## Introduction
Welcome to the first devlog entry for [Cricket Manager](http://cricketmanager.org/), a new game that puts you in the shoes of a cricket team manager! If you're a fan of cricket and have ever dreamed of running your own team, then this is the game for you. On June 16th, 2023, I announced the intention of building a game like this and was overwhelmed with the interest in our small group of cricket enthusisats. I've been hard at work since then bringing the vision of Cricket Manager to life.

Throughout this devlog series, I'll provide regular updates on our progress, share insights into our development process, and give you a behind-the-scenes look at how Cricket Manager is shaping up. I hope to engage with our community, gather feedback, and incorporate your ideas into the game's development.

## What is Cricket Manager?
As passionate cricket enthusiasts ourselves, we wanted to create a game that captures the essence of this beloved sport. With Cricket Manager, our goal is to deliver an engaging simulation that combines the thrill of cricket matches with the strategic elements of team management. From selecting the starting lineup to devising match tactics, every decision you make will have an impact on the outcome.

## Prototyping:
During this month, myself and a group of decicated cricket fans spent significant time to brainstorming and prototyping various ideas for Cricket Manager. We aimed to establish a solid foundation for the game mechanics and core features. Through experimentation and iteration, we explored different ways to simulate the management aspects of cricket.

## Tech Stack Evaluation:
In the early stages, I chose to use [AdonisJs](https://adonisjs.com/) as the framework for building Cricket Manager. However, as I progressed with development, I realized that AdonisJs did not align with our preferred development approach. I found its custom nature and conventions to be less suitable for our project requirements and personal preferences.
After evaluating various options, I found that [RedwoodJS](https://redwoodjs.com/) aligned perfectly with our development goals for Cricket Manager. RedwoodJS is a full-stack JavaScript framework that incorporates [React](https://react.dev/) , [GraphQL](https://graphql.org/), [Prisma](https://www.prisma.io/), and other proven technologies. This combination not only ensures a modern and efficient development workflow but also provides a robust ecosystem for building scalable web applications.

## API Development:
Creating a robust and efficient API is essential for enabling smooth communication between the frontend and backend of Cricket Manager. As a result a lot of time and effort went designing and implementing the API endpoints using RedwoodJS and GraphQL. This allows us to define the data structure, query capabilities, and mutations required to support the game's functionality.

## What's Next?
As we progress into the next phase of development, we will continue refining the API and UI integration for Cricket Manager. We will focus on implementing additional features, enhancing the UI visuals, and ensuring smooth interactions between the frontend and backend.

Testing plays a vital role in identifying and addressing any issues or bugs, ultimately enhancing the overall quality of the game. As a result we will be implementing automated testing to ensure that the game functions as intended.

## Conclusion:
As I reflect on the past month of development for Cricket Manager, it has been a rollercoaster ride filled with both joy and frustration. The journey has been marked by significant learning experiences and countless opportunities for experimentation. I have grown as developer, and I am excited to see what the future holds for Cricket Manager.
Thank you for joining us on this incredible adventure so far, and I can't wait to share more updates and progress with you in the coming months.

## Stay Connected:
Follow us on [twitter](https://twitter.com/_cricketmanager) to get latest updates about the game.